[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
Astrologer Mercedes
Arnús is with us,
has been a student of
the stars since age 15.
At 27, she created the
Astral Method Academy.
Now that combines astrology,
meditation, and channeling
to guide others.
She has a new Oracle deck to
make learning astrology fun
and accessible.
Mercedes, welcome
to Beyond Belief.
>>MERCEDES ARNÚS ARRAUT:
Thank you so much, George.
It's a pleasure being here.
>>GEORGE: By the way you
have a wonderful first name.
How did you get that?
>>ARRAUT: It's the
name of my aunt,
my grandmother, great,
great grandmother.
So it means gratitude.
So gratitude runs in
the family for sure.
>>GEORGE: Now, at
the age of 15, you
got into astrology by accident?
>>ARRAUT: Maybe you
could say by accident,
but I was obsessed, George,
obsessed with the stars.
I was so excited about
asking people their star sign
when they were born,
and almost like I
was feeling like that I
was predicting for them,
even without having
studied astrology.
So when I decided at age 15
to sign up for an academy,
it was weird, but I felt like
I already knew everything
that they were teaching me.
So I knew that I was
in the right spot
even though I was the youngest.
>>GEORGE: You even
got involved in it
even before 15, didn't you?
>>ARRAUT: Well,
my parents taught
me meditation, how
to read the stars,
how to connect to the stars
through meditation as well.
And I was brought up in a pretty
spiritually awakened family,
fortunately for me.
>>GEORGE: Was it easy
for you to study?
>>ARRAUT: I think
it was, I genuinely
think it was because it was
a world that I was already
prepared for by my parents,
and being brought up
with the guidance of meditation
and channeling already.
It was easy to connect
to that wisdom.
>>GEORGE: And Mercedes, what
point in your life or career
did you know this is what
I want to do for a living?
>>ARRAUT: Well,
that's a little tricky
because even though my
parents were very spiritual,
my upbringing was very Catholic.
I went to a Catholic
school, grandparents
and great grandparents
were super, super Catholic.
So my parents were
already the ones
rebelling against
it, I'd say, or even
like going through a much more
spiritually awakened path.
So I'd say that it wasn't until
I was around the age of 27
that I had already gone
through so many paths trying
to find that calling that I
was like, I'm not finding it.
And I never thought
astrology was a way
that I could make a living,
because back then astrology
was for weirdos were for people
that were like, I don't know,
definitely not for people
that were brought up
in a very Catholic ambience,
very Catholic upbringing.
So I never thought that
would be a path that
would be safe enough,
professionally at least.
But when I was 27, something
changed because I had no option.
I started receiving so many
messages, so many callings,
I could hear so many voices.
>>GEORGE: From where?
>>ARRAUT: Channels, I
was like an open channel
and I was just receiving
so much information,
so much knowledge at all times
that I started feeling books.
In one of those books,
in one of those writings,
they told me what
I was going to do.
And this was right around
before I turned 27.
I was 26 and something.
>>GEORGE: Now there are a lot
of different types of astrology.
Do you specialize in
any one particular kind?
>>ARRAUT: Yes.
So I mean, I respect
Hellenistic astrology, which
is the traditional form of
astrology, the first use that we
have of astrology.
And I merge it with the modern
techniques because I feel that
even though they've been
like newly developed,
we could say it since the 1700s
where Uranus was discovered
and then Neptune and Pluto.
So I incorporate those planets
as well in my teaching.
So we could say it's a mix
of Hellenistic and modern
astrology.
>>GEORGE: What's really the
difference between the two?
>>ARRAUT: So
traditional astrology
works a lot more with the basic
planets that were first found.
And modern astrology
incorporates the outer planets
and incorporates
asteroids as well,
and it has developed more
modern techniques, such as,
for example, studying the
compatibility in between two
charts.
For example, love
synastry, which
is something that's
very common nowadays,
but that is
something that didn't
exist in Hellenistic astrology.
>>GEORGE: You formed the Astral
Method Academy, what is that?
>>ARRAUT: So I was
a little bit afraid
of all the power that
we were able to have,
astrologers or people
that make predictions.
And the power that we hold
or that people give us
when we're doing readings
because they come to us
and they expect us to decide
what's going to happen to them
or predict their
future, which is one
of the first uses of astrology.
But when people come to us, they
give us all of this attention
and all of this power and
it was very overwhelming,
because at the end
of the day we are
creators of our own life,
creators of our own reality.
And I did not want
the responsibility
of making predictions
for someone that
would make them
obsessed with them,
because I did not want
to harm them in that way.
And I feel that making
such strong predictions
sometimes could be
harmful for people.
So I decided to open an academy
because that way people could
decide their own fate
by understanding where
their fate is coming from.
The fate or the
patterns that they
come to develop in their lives,
and how to escape those patterns
through astrology so
that it's not their fate.
Or less liked
predictions, let's say,
so that they don't
have to become true.
They can avoid
them or escape them
if they know about
them in advance.
But I think it's very
important for each one
to read their own future,
because your consciousness is
here to guide you
in this lifetime.
>>GEORGE: Did they decide
this themselves or did you
decide that for them?
>>ARRAUT: I was instructed by
my higher self and other beings
to open this academy
so that we wouldn't
have so much power over people.
And I say we as
in me and whoever
else teaches astrology or any
powerful predicting methods
as well.
>>GEORGE: Have you
rejected students?
>>ARRAUT: I have, yes.
>>GEORGE: What causes
that rejection?
>>ARRAUT: To me, people
that work with me closely,
like my students, need to be
very careful with the way they
handle information.
Because what I
teach is something
that is going to change
your entire life,
the way you're going
to see life, the way
you're going to see your family,
your career, your finances,
it's going to change the entire
perspective of your life.
So if you come to
these teachings,
if you come to me
to learn my method,
it's going to be a new you that
emerges and a lot of people
are not ready for that.
>>GEORGE: Can you tell by
just talking to somebody,
that person is going to
be a great astrologer?
>>ARRAUT: Yes.
>>GEORGE: You've got that
instinct within you, don't you?
>>ARRAUT: Yes, for sure.
And also because it's their
soul talking through their eyes
and I can see when someone
is so fascinated by knowledge
and so fascinated by the
mysteries that have been hidden
and covered up in astrology in
the last thousands of years.
>>GEORGE: Mercedes,
they say that astrology
is like a mirror of our lives
on Earth, you agree with that?
>>ARRAUT: Absolutely,
and that's literally,
George, how I describe astrology
to be because people think
that astrology
happened to us like,
oh, this full moon is
so difficult to handle.
It's like, no,
it's actually just
whatever is happening in
the solar system, whatever
is happening with the planets,
any alignment, new moon,
full moon is just a mirror
to our current reality.
So every month we
go through cycles.
Same as the moon,
same as the planets,
every day we're
evolving, we're growing.
And so is the solar system
constantly in evolution.
So what I explain in
my academy as well
is how the solar
system is a mirror,
it's a macrocosmos
to our microcosmos.
So whatever is happening outside
is happening inside as well.
So astrology is just a way to
learn how to look at the mirror
and integrate that image that
the mirror is showing you
into your own existence.
So that's why predictions,
they're influences,
but predictions can be easily
changed, they're malleable.
They can change if you
change because your future is
conditioned by your present.
So that's why I
founded, going back
to that question, that's why
I founded the Astral Method
Academy.
And I teach exactly
this, that astrology
is a mirror to our own life,
and we know how to read it,
we know how to
look at ourselves.
>>GEORGE: How far back
does astrology go?
>>ARRAUT: That's
a great question.
So we have the first origins
of astrology at 3000 BCE.
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>ARRAUT: I know, it's crazy.
Even when I say it out
loud, I'm like, oh, wow,
because that's when we have
the first written cuneiform
text back in Sumeria.
And those are the
first uses of astrology
that we found where we see,
for example, that they already
had super analyzed the cycles of
the planet Venus that was used
to predict crops, abundance,
fertility, the birth
of important kings or queens,
and also the moments of war,
war was going to be coming up.
They based all of
that information
just off the cycles
of the planet Venus
that they had super, super
well-noted down as well
as eclipses, for example.
That was also something that
they used back in the day
to make important predictions,
especially of unexpected deaths
of kings or when kings
were going to "fall ill."
>>GEORGE: You mentioned Sumeria,
the late Zecharia Sitchin talked
about the Anunnaki who
came from another planet
and came here to search for
gold for their atmosphere.
But they talk about
all kinds of things
that they did in those days.
May they have been the
originators of astrology?
>>ARRAUT: It's funny that
you mentioned this, George,
because in my academy I
actually teach how the origins
of astrology scientifically
proved back to 3000 BCE--
I genuinely feel that it's a
science or a study that has been
brought upon us from other--
>>GEORGE: And given to us.
>>ARRAUT: --systems given to us
and taught to us by other race.
>>GEORGE: So he may
have been right.
>>ARRAUT: I do believe so.
>>GEORGE: What
about world leaders
today, do they use astrology?
>>ARRAUT: Yes.
>>GEORGE: Do they
tell people about it?
>>ARRAUT: No, that's
the funny thing.
>>GEORGE: What do we know?
>>ARRAUT: So as an
astrologer and someone who's
been giving consultations
probably since I was 15,
we keep our clients
extremely private.
We cannot say who our client
is because the client--
>>GEORGE: Oh, come on.
>>ARRAUT: --it's something
that we keep really,
really private because
it's almost like someone
who comes to you and
trusts you with all
of their sacred
hidden knowledge.
Because when someone
shows you, especially
if you know how to read
a chart, if someone
comes to you with
their chart, they're
like going completely
naked in front of you
because we know
how to read that.
So as someone who gives
also private consultations,
I need to keep the information
of the client very privately.
So with world leaders,
I know for a fact,
people and people that
have come to me or people
that I know that
have gone to maybe
not astrologers, but
other consultations
in a similar field, they
keep it extremely silent.
But I feel it's
really wise to go
get a consultation, especially
following or reading the stars,
just because the stars
and how the stars are
the planetary movements and
the stars position and even
the fixed stars and how
everything's aligned
from our perspective on Earth
is a mirror on how currently
our planet is: as
above, so below.
So that's why world leaders
would do so much better
if they actually accepted
astrology as something to share,
and not something
to keep hidden.
>>GEORGE: Maybe the world
would be a little more peaceful
if they studied that.
>>ARRAUT: Absolutely.
>>GEORGE: Astrology, how
does it work in your day
to day maneuvers?
>>ARRAUT: I love that question
because it's something
that I get asked a lot.
So when I work personally
with astrology,
I follow eclipse cycles.
Eclipse cycles are also
connected to our life purpose
as humans that we are working
on throughout 18.5 months.
So every 18.5 months, there's
a shift in the energy field,
and we can feel it shifting
especially like 2 and 1/2 months
before it shifts
into the next sign.
So every 18.5 months, we shift
into a new constellation.
So our focus of attention, which
is said by eclipse as an eclipse
cycles, go towards
a certain energy.
And this is because
astronomically speaking,
these eclipse cycles
are found or are
said by the crossing of the
orbit of the moon around Earth
and the crossing of the
Earth around the sun.
When these two orbits
cross, it creates an axis,
and this axis is also
used in Vedic astrology
and it's associated to
the head of the dragon
and the tail of the dragon,
this specific axis that
has a North and a South.
>>GEORGE: You're almost
like an astronomer.
>>ARRAUT: When you
study astrology,
astronomy is like a twin sister.
You need to know a
lot about astronomy
when you learn astrology.
>>GEORGE: Fascinating.
>>ARRAUT: So with
the eclipse cycles,
you understand where
the world is headed.
In this specific point, which
is this North of this axis,
it tilts every 18.5 months
into a different sign.
So this is what I take
the most into account
when studying astrology,
because that way I
can prepare where
human's attention is
going to be focused at.
For example, when this
point is in Aries,
we know that there's going to
be wars, so it's a time for war.
>>GEORGE: You just
don't know where.
>>ARRAUT: We could
predict where.
>>GEORGE: You can, really?
>>ARRAUT: We could, yes,
that's how crazy it gets.
Yes, we can.
But for example,
when this point is
in Taurus and all
of our focus is
going to be in new investments
and finances and new ways
of making money, new resources.
So that's what I take
into account the most when
I work with astrology myself.
>>GEORGE: Mercedes, how does
astrology tie into dreams?
>>ARRAUT: My favorite
topic here, George.
>>GEORGE: Love dreams.
>>ARRAUT: Love, love, love.
I'm a crazy dreamer since
1992 when I was born.
>>GEORGE: And you remember
them all, don't you?
>>ARRAUT: All of them,
and it's a practice.
And this is actually
why I'm very
happy you brought this topic.
So astrology, we
study the most basic
from our perspective
on Earth, the cycles
of the Earth around the sun
and the moon around the Earth.
Because every month we have
a new moon and a full moon,
and every month we work
in a different energy,
and the moon crosses for 29.5
days over all of the signs
from our perspective on Earth.
So astrology is
almost like a map
for you to read your
dreams because the moon
rules over our sleep cycles,
our bodies, our subconscious,
our memories,
everything that has
to do with how we feel
and process emotions.
And that is what
corresponds or correlates
to our subconscious world or our
dream world, our oneiric world.
>>GEORGE: What dreams are
affected by astrology?
>>ARRAUT: Literally all of them
because at the end of the day--
>>GEORGE: Clairvoyance,
all kinds.
>>ARRAUT: All kinds.
And it depends honestly on
a certain planetary transit,
or where the moon is navigating.
For example, for 2 and 1/2 days,
the moon crosses over a certain
constellation, and especially
when the moon is in water signs,
we tend to have those lucid
dreams or dreams that are more
connected to psychic
visions or future visions,
because it's when the moon
is in its water element.
So that's when we
are like, oh, wow,
OK, I'm going to prepare for
when the moon is in water signs
and this is actually
what I guide
and what I teach as well, so
that I can, when I wake up,
have a planner or
like a journal for me
to write down what I dreamed
because I know when the moon is
in water signs, I'm going to
have more lucid or more vivid
dreams.
>>GEORGE: Interesting take.
Meditation, how does
that tie into astrology?
>>ARRAUT: So this is a
little trick that I do,
every night before going to
bed, I meditate because when you
meditate--
>>GEORGE: How do you do that?
>>ARRAUT: I have so
many meditations.
>>GEORGE: You lie in bed
meditating like that or what?
>>ARRAUT: So I guide meditations
also as a part of my living
and a part of my
giving to my community.
So with the planetary movements
and the lunar movements,
new moons, full moons, I
guide specific meditations
and many of them are to prepare
to go to bed, to prepare
to fall asleep.
>>GEORGE: Really?
>>ARRAUT: So what I do
is I prepare the body,
prepare the system to go into
another plane of existence.
And that's why I feel,
I know a lot of people
love meditating in the
morning and that's great too,
but my trick is to meditate
at night before I go to bed.
>>GEORGE: How long does it take?
>>ARRAUT: I do like 20 minutes.
>>GEORGE: That's not bad.
>>ARRAUT: 20 minutes, not more.
>>GEORGE: It makes you
fall asleep easier too.
>>ARRAUT: Makes you
fall asleep easier
and it makes you gain awareness
of this moment where you cross
over in between, being aware
and awakened and being asleep
or in this dream state.
So I prepare my consciousness
to do that crossing over
into the oneiric world
or fourth dimension.
>>GEORGE: I should try that.
I do a late night radio
show, and when it's over,
it's hard to slow
down and shut down.
Meditation probably
would help there.
>>ARRAUT: That would be perfect
because what you want is to not
go to bed in--
>>GEORGE: Hyped up.
>>ARRAUT: --hyped up system.
You want to take your system
down into a very relaxed state
so that you can prepare your
body to do that crossover very
gently.
>>GEORGE: And you
definitely don't
want to bring your day's
events to bed with you
because your brain keeps
going, click, click, click,
click, click.
You'll never get to sleep.
>>ARRAUT: And at the end of
the day you'll dream about it.
>>GEORGE: Absolutely.
You predicted the date and time
of your friend's child's birth.
How did you do that?
>>ARRAUT: So as I said, I've
been a crazy dreamer since 1992.
And the way dreams talk to
me and it's actually also
why I linked it to astrology is
dreams talk to me by bringing
in images of planets.
It's almost like planets
talk to me in dreams.
And then I see the
celestial sphere
and the planetary placements
and the lunar placement,
for example, in specific charts.
I know it sounds a little
weird, but the way my dream
shows me is as a natal chart
or as a planetary position.
I work with planets
and the stars all day,
so it's not weird for me
to dream about planets,
but the way this experience
worked is that I saw--
a friend of mine
was pregnant and she
was very stressed out,
like a first mother,
like one of those first
experiences for a woman.
She was going nuts.
She was so desperate, I think
that my subconscious gave me
that to give to
her because she was
very nervous about the birth,
about the sex of the baby,
about everything.
So in my dream, I saw
the planetary placements
on how the date of the
birth was going to be.
So it's almost like
I saw the screenshot
of the cosmos or
the solar system
from the moment of
that child's birth.
I saw it was going to be a girl.
I saw that she was going to
be born that specific date,
it was October 17.
>>GEORGE: You were spot on.
>>ARRAUT: Spot on, George.
And I told her, I'm
going to calculate
exactly when these
planetary positions
that my dream showed
me for you and I'm
going to tell you the date.
And I told her
exactly the date, I
told her it was going to
be a baby girl because she
didn't know at that time.
>>GEORGE: You probably
gave her the time too.
>>ARRAUT: I told her everything
because the dream showed me.
And it was also fun for
me to see if that actually
was going to be so accurate.
>>GEORGE: And you were.
>>ARRAUT: And it was.
>>GEORGE: Did it surprise you?
>>ARRAUT: A little bit.
It always surprises
me, even though I've
been doing it since I
was 15, pretty much,
and dreaming about planets
my entire life it still
surprises me to the date.
>>GEORGE: You mentioned earlier
the full moons, the new moons,
how do they affect
the dreams we have?
>>ARRAUT: Great question,
because this is a very practical
technique, and I love giving
practical things for people
to use in astrology.
For example, when
we have full moons
is when people have the
most trouble sleeping.
So we're going to have shorter
and more intermittent dreams,
like shorter dreams.
We're going to wake up in
the middle of the night
throughout the night,
so we might not remember
everything we've dreamed.
So we got to pick up
or even if we wake up,
write it down quickly
and then go back
to bed because when
we have a full moon,
our bodies tend
to be more bloated
and we tend to be a
little more anxious.
So we wake up during the
night, however, in a new moon,
is when we start a
new sleeping cycle.
So in a new moon, we
want to be more relaxed
and understand that we're
starting a new subconscious
cycle to work on
something specific,
depending on where
that new moon would
fall for you and your
relationship to that new moon.
But usually when we start
a new cycle, lunar cycle,
we tend to have
more smooth dreams,
we tend to sleep
more full nights
and dreams usually are
all about beginnings.
For example, dreaming
of getting pregnant,
dreaming of having
a new job and we get
the excitement of the newness.
>>GEORGE: How does the
moon determine that?
>>ARRAUT: Because the moon
rules over our waters,
our memories, our bodies since
we are made mostly of water
and it rules over our
subconscious patterns
because it connects
us to memories
and it connects and
rules over all emotions.
So at the end of the day,
the moon and its cycles
rule over a lot
of our existence.
And of course, because it's
the satellite closest to Earth.
>>GEORGE: Funny you say that I
interviewed some police officers
a long time ago
on my radio show,
and they said during a
new moon and a full moon,
they had more calls of crazy
things happening than ever.
In between, things
were normal, but if it
was a full moon or a new moon,
wackos came out of the woodwork.
>>ARRAUT: And imagine if
that new moon or full moon
is an eclipse that gets
triggered to the max.
>>GEORGE: What is
4D dream state?
>>ARRAUT: So 4D dream state,
the 4D or fourth dimension is
the oneiric world, or what
we call the astral plane,
where we go when we sleep
and where we go when we die.
>>GEORGE: And your
astral projections.
>>ARRAUT: And where you
are in astral projections,
correct, yes.
So every time we
go to bed, we enter
into this fourth dimension.
And every time we go to bed is
a preparation for when we die.
It's almost like a training
for death, let's say.
So that's why astrology
is also a great use for us
to understand how to make the
most out of our dream practice
and what to expect every night.
It's almost like be
one with your dreams
because mostly we dream
and most people don't even
remember their dreams.
So by having this
practice of entering
the fourth D, the
fourth dimension
with this little
meditation every night
and training to when you get out
of that dream, when you wake up
of that fourth dimension, that
you remember where you were just
at, that you make this little
effort just by remembering
the emotion.
What was I feeling?
What did I just felt?
Because the emotion will
help you remember the dream.
Also symbols, what
did I just see?
What image did just come to me?
Because it's pretty
much impossible for us
to remember the entire dream.
But we can remember symbols,
codes, numbers and emotions,
so that will help us
remember the dreams
and that's one of my techniques.
>>GEORGE: I'm told
that if you could
take a picture of
the human body asleep
and it would capture whatever
you take a picture of,
you would see your
astral body floating
above your physical body in
the dream state connected
by a cord just
hovering over you.
You agree with that?
>>ARRAUT: Yes, I've seen
that and I've actually
experienced it myself.
And I know you've had so many
astral experiences as well,
like astral projection
experiences.
And it's something
that feels like it.
I haven't seen it per se,
but it just feels like it
that you get pulled back
by something into your body
and wake up in it
as in something just
connect you or pulled
you back into it.
>>GEORGE: You adored your
grandmother, didn't you?
>>ARRAUT: Big time.
>>GEORGE: You helped
her in your dream state,
tell me what happened.
>>ARRAUT: I love how we
connected this past question
of the 4D and the astral
projection onto my grandmother
because it's literally
the gift that she made me.
And I want to
explain this clearly
because I feel this is something
that happened to many people,
but we just don't
have the guidance
because nobody teaches us this.
So when someone that we care
about or that we are connected
to or that we know passes away,
when they are in the other side,
which what I call
the fourth dimension,
when they are over that side
where they have no physical
body, they look for a
way back onto matter,
onto connect back to the 3D,
to a three dimensional state.
So they look for energies
that they resonate to
and what chooses that
connection is emotion.
So they're going
to look for someone
that they can connect
emotionally to
or that they can
feel a light, they
feel like a magnet
toward that energy
because it's an open portal or
an open channel or open energy,
let's say.
So when my grandmother died,
immediately after her death--
>>GEORGE: Was that
unexpected, by the way?
>>ARRAUT: No, not really.
She was old.
She had a great life and I
think she was ready for death.
I think it was a pretty
good death, honestly.
So she had time to
prepare for her death
and she was telling me.
Before she was going to die, she
was like, they're coming for me.
And she would say this
to me, they're coming,
they're very close.
>>GEORGE: Who's they?
>>ARRAUT: That's what I
was asking her, who's they?
She said a group, a group
of souls, a group of people
that she doesn't know.
>>GEORGE: She wasn't scared.
>>ARRAUT: She was not
scared, not at all.
She said that they seem nice,
but she just didn't know.
She was not very spiritual,
she was very, very Catholic,
so she just didn't
see that relationship.
>>GEORGE: I think our
loved ones are there too.
They're probably
part of that group.
>>ARRAUT: 100%.
Because at the end
of the day, when
you are connected to the
other world, there's no time.
So essentially, she could
have been connecting to me
that I would guide her in
the future once she passes.
Because what happened
is that once she passed,
she came to see me
as I was sleeping,
and she would come visit
me almost every month.
>>GEORGE: And tell you what?
>>ARRAUT: At the beginning,
nothing, George, nothing.
At the beginning, she
would just look at me
and she was almost
like, petrified.
What is this?
What's happening?
And at the beginning, there was
no talking, no communication.
I would see her, OK, and I would
always see her in her house.
So I knew that she was very
connected at the beginning
to her physical space
to where she lived.
So after a few months,
she started talking to me,
and she started seeming
almost more of a soul
and less of a body.
So I could see
that she was going
through a process of elevation
of some sort, of enlightenment
or some process of detaching
of her physical form.
So after a while, we
started having conversations
and she would come see me and
she would come tell me stuff,
and she would come tell
me what she's doing.
And I would see her going
through an entire process,
almost like what in Christianism
they would say like a purgatory,
when they go through an
entire process of what's
happened in life.
That's what she
was going through
and I could see it just
from the dream world.
>>GEORGE: Like life review?
>>ARRAUT: Yes, exactly.
And as I was guiding
my grandmother,
I was also guiding two
of my cousins and friends
of friends and people that would
just come see me in my sleep.
That's why I would wake
up and I'd be like,
oh, my God, I did more
work while I was sleeping.
>>GEORGE: I'm exhausted.
>>ARRAUT: I'm exhausted.
But anyway, I know
that when I cross over,
I'll also have a lot of help.
Because when we die, and I
saw this in my grandmother,
but in many, many other cases,
just my grandmother who's
closest to me.
But I see this a lot where
people, when they cross over,
they don't remember
anything that's happened.
They don't even
know who they are.
They lose a complete sense of
realization of where they are
and what they're doing,
where they come from.
So that's why unconsciously,
they seek for guidance--
>>GEORGE: From us?
>>ARRAUT: --from us because
that's where they come from.
>>GEORGE: Are they lost?
>>ARRAUT: A little bit.
At the beginning,
always, and it's normal.
It's like when you come to Earth
and you're a baby, you're like,
where am I?
Just take me back
where I come from.
>>GEORGE: So your grandmother
was lost on the other side?
>>ARRAUT: A little bit, yeah.
>>GEORGE: And you helped her?
>>ARRAUT: So I helped
her cross over crossover.
It was a long process.
It was a very, very
long process, overall,
it took like three years.
>>GEORGE: Three years.
>>ARRAUT: After three years,
I saw her in a different form,
and now I think it's
been seven years.
And recently I saw her being
ready to come back here,
and she told me, I'm
getting ready to come back.
>>GEORGE: To
reincarnate you mean?
>>ARRAUT: I'm getting
ready to reincarnate.
I'm getting ready to come back.
>>GEORGE: Interesting.
>>ARRAUT: I don't
know in which form,
but I'm sure she'll tell me.
I'm sure she'll let us know
because that's what I really
like this process
that's made me learn
so much about death and about
what happens after we die
and how we can use
our dreams, which
is our access to the other
world to prepare for our death.
It's going to
school, every night
we go to school to
prepare for death.
>>GEORGE: How do you
practice dream recall?
>>ARRAUT: Training.
I'd say training.
>>GEORGE: Can you teach that?
>>ARRAUT: Yes, for sure.
And it's something that
you have to teach yourself
because your own consciousness
is here to guide you,
is your master.
So when you wake
up, your willpower
has to guide you to remember
where you were just at.
And with time and practice, you
remember everything, or almost
everything, and you
can write it down,
especially important
experiences or important dreams,
or experiences that you
have in the four dimension
in the oneiric world.
So mostly the dreams
are a guide for you
to navigate in this life.
That's why I love syncing it
with astrology because astrology
is a map to navigate this life.
But as we sleep, we're also
connected to this life.
So we have influences
of our emotions
and our programs, our daily
lives into our subconscious.
So by understanding our dreams
and understanding the lunar
cycles or planetary
cycles, we understand
what our dreams are telling us.
It's almost like they're
preparing us for our future.
So that's why I love preparing
for predictive dreams,
for example, or dreams that
tell me about the future.
Like the case of
my friend's baby
because once I told her the date
and I told her everything was
going to be fine
and everything was
going to be great in
this specific date,
she was so at peace, George.
She was like, so
calm, so grateful.
>>GEORGE: Reincarnation,
you just mentioned
that with your grandmother.
What does life's purpose
show us about astrology
and reincarnation?
>>ARRAUT: This is
such a good question.
So remember I was talking
about that axis that
is found with a North and a
South and in Vedic astrology
they corresponded to head of the
dragon and tail of the dragon.
This is something that we
all have in our natal charts,
in our astral charts, which
corresponds to the eclipse
cycle in which we are born.
And that eclipse cycle
in which we are born
is almost what we call our
life purpose or our future
or our soul's calling.
And that point of the
South, or tail of the dragon
is what in astrology
we interpret
as our point of past lives.
So we could say that,
that is what pushed us
into incarnating again, so our
soul's calling can be fulfilled.
>>GEORGE: Are they like
timelines in your career?
>>ARRAUT: We can see
timelines, correct, yes.
And in some cases
more than others,
there are some people
that come so connected
and so grounded to
this lifetime or when
we work with this
specific people,
we have a lot more difficulty
accessing other timelines
or other planes
of their existence
because they're so glued
and anchored to this one
that it makes it
more difficult for us
to access other planes
because they're also
very close to that idea.
But usually, we can
connect to other timelines
and understand
what the person is
doing in other
realms of existence
and what they come
to do in this one,
in this present life
that we're working on.
>>GEORGE: Can people
develop their own intuition?
>>ARRAUT: 100%.
And I wanted--
>>GEORGE: And gets better and
better and better, doesn't it?
>>ARRAUT: That's what I do.
I invite people to
develop their intuition
or their psychic abilities,
and that's actually something
I teach in my academy as well.
I guide them into them
being their own guru,
their own psychic, their
own medium, their own guide,
their own astrologer,
their own everything
because they are everything.
And we can all
master our abilities.
>>GEORGE: What is
it about intuition
that allows us to really
have that gut instinct?
>>ARRAUT: I'd say consciousness.
When you tap into your own
source, source is everything.
Source is everything
we see, everything we
touch, everything we feel.
You are source.
>>GEORGE: Is source God?
>>ARRAUT: We could say it.
We could call it
God, absolutely.
So when we connect to God, God
is everywhere and everything.
Even you right now, you're
a projection of that God
that's inside me and vice versa.
>>GEORGE: I'm far from godly.
>>ARRAUT: So I'd say
that intuition is just
consciousness acting
through your human voice
and your human form.
>>GEORGE: Since you've been
doing this all these years, what
has been the most startling
thing you've done and shocked
even you?
>>ARRAUT: I love when
people ask me this question.
But it depends on the
time, because sometimes I
love, for example, just
feeling the power a hug has
to change your entire body.
But something else that
I do love, of course,
is working with the other side.
I love working with people
that have crossed over
and understanding their natal
charts and what made them die,
what pushed them or
energetically opened the door
for them to cross over.
This is, I think, to the date,
what fascinates me the most,
or what has astonished
me the most in my career,
working with the fourth
dimension and other dimensions.
>>GEORGE: In astrology, what
does it mean the elements?
>>ARRAUT: So
something also that I
teach is for people to
use this tool that I'm
going to share with you, George,
because I'm sure you'll find it
very, very useful as well.
>>GEORGE: I'll run out
and use it immediately.
>>ARRAUT: Immediately,
even right now.
But I think you and I are the
same element, so it's good.
So when we navigate
our life, we need
to also know that we
have our own relationship
to the elements, elements
meaning air, water, fire,
and earth and ether, ether
is our consciousness.
So we come to understand how
to navigate and play around
with the elements that
we're given here on earth.
So each one, when
we're born, we're
given this map which is
called the natal chart,
the astral chart.
And in this chart, we can read
the percentage of each energy
that you come to embody.
A lot of people come
more connected to earth,
some other people come connected
to fire, water, or air.
And you're going to
embody most of the energy
that your sun sign is.
So let's say, for example, that
you're feeling a little bit more
like ungrounded,
uncertain, unsettled.
You're needing to
manifest something,
but you're feeling like a little
bit loopy or up in the air.
>>GEORGE: Not me.
>>ARRAUT: Not you, I'm
just saying, in general.
If people feel that way,
it happens to me a lot
that I feel like too
much up in a channel.
>>GEORGE: I like
that word loopy.
>>ARRAUT: Loopy.
So what I'd say is
go connect to people
that have a lot of Earth energy,
like Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn,
because that earth
energy grounds you.
And if you're feeling
ungrounded, connecting
to people that are
born on those sun
signs will just help
you ground and manifest
and be more connected
to matter and to earth.
But for example,
let's say that you
feel that you have an
emotional blockage, like, oh, I
haven't cried in a long time
and there's something weird.
I just feel like I need to
feel or there's something
that I'm not feeling correct.
>>GEORGE: I need to let loose.
>>ARRAUT: I need to let loose.
So then you're going
to want to connect
to people born in Scorpio,
Pisces, or Cancer seasons
because they're water
energy, and they
will make you flow
into something else
or allow you to flow
into your own emotions.
But for example, let's say that
you want to prepare for a speech
or you need mental
clarity for something
or you just need to have
a good conversation,
then you're going to want
to connect with people that
are born in air sign seasons
Aquarius, Libra, and Gemini
because they will help you
gain much more a clearer mind
or have a mind that's a lot
more organized, let's say.
>>GEORGE: Do they know
what they're doing,
the Geminis, for example?
>>ARRAUT: And they
don't even have to know.
I know you're a Gemini.
>>GEORGE: I'm a Gemini.
>>ARRAUT: I know and
I'm an air sign too,
so that's why we're
in this together.
>>GEORGE: Clicking along here.
>>ARRAUT: Yes, of course, of
course we're the same element.
So let's say the one that I
was missing is the fire energy,
what would you go
to fire signs for?
Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius.
You would go for
them for energy.
When you're low,
you're like low energy,
even those moments
in time when you're
a little depressed or a
little tired or you're just
need an energy
boost, you're going
to go contact those fire signs.
For example, my sister has
everything fire in her chart.
And I have a lot of water,
so I flow very well,
but I tend to be very sensitive.
So when I'm feeling a little
low, I give her a call
and then within seconds, I
give her a call on purpose,
of course, because I'm
like, I need your fire,
give me some fire.
And within seconds she puts
me in such a good mood,
gives me such a
boost, and that's
what fire energy does to you.
>>GEORGE: Magical.
>>ARRAUT: Magical.
>>GEORGE: How do people
get a hold of you Mercedes?
>>ARRAUT: So they can literally
Google me, Mercedes Arnús.
And you can find me on
academy.theastralmethod.com
or you can reach me at
mercedes@theastralmethod.com.
>>GEORGE: Thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>ARRAUT: Thank
you so much George.
It's been an honor.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
>>GEORGE: I got to
tell you, years ago
when I first started
hearing about astrology,
I thought it was
wacky, different.
But the more I got into it,
the more I interviewed people
like Mercedes Arnús,
the more I realized
there's something
to this and it's
very important to our future.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]